In the foreground, a silhouette of shrubs frame Lauren in the midground.
She lays in a sleeping bag in her friend’s backyard.
Her form is disguised into the surrounding darkness
apart from the light from her smartphone screen illuminating her face.
An overhead light also shows traces of outdoor furniture behind her
and the fences that reveal the boundary of the backyard.
The further I got into this series of voice experiments, the more I began to dissociate.
It became hard to tell what existed beyond my computer screen.
Months of caution began to induce feelings of extreme recklessness and futility.
In a last ditch effort to get close, I sent text messages to friends.
A holiday offering of my live body outside their home.
We have only text communication.
I spend the night out on their lawn.
Each of us thinking of the other’s physicality.
Seeking presence.
Suddenly, my motion sensor lights turned off.
And your whole body disappeared into the night.
Aside from your face which was illuminated by your phone that you held above you.
Slightly uneased and amused, I messaged you,
And I said, “I left the back door unlocked in case you need to use the restroom tonight.”
And the typing bubble appeared and I looked to see your fingers move across your screen in that instance.
“Thanks!” you reply.
I feel safety in this closeness at distance.
While I’m thinking of all the others outside every night in more precarious positions.
Last spring we witnessed extraordinary measures taken to provide housing and care.
Measures we were previously told were too hard and too expensive and would take too much time.
As these safety nets are now being unravelled, how do we keep demanding support for the most vulnerable?
Who are the people outside our homes that we choose to think of at night?